So I found this data set online somewhere,
and it shows all of the accidents
that occurred in Chicago.
And what I find interesting about it is
that recently I did some work with machine
learning and
I learned to use a clustering algorithm.
And so I just figured, hey,
it'd be fun if I could just cluster
the data from all the accidents and
you can You can see maybe something
interesting happens in here.
In this particular case, you don't
really have anything interesting because
it turns out that if you're
in a center of the city,
then it's more likely
to cause an accident.
So if you move the buttons a little bit,
I did, I think if you just change
the value here, it just takes a while
because it's a large data set.
Click on the button.
Yeah, it did click on it.
It's chewing through it.
What I find is interesting about it, if
you tweak the parameters of clustering and
how much data you have,
it essentially shows you all
the intersections in a city, right?
So guess what?
Intersections are dangerous.
But I think it's kind of interesting
that you can kind of play with the data.
Anyways, we're not here to talk about
the data, but I thought this would be
an interesting kind of a background for
the kind of test that we built.
What is a cluster?
Good question.
So cluster, so let's go back to
the previous view right here.
And each dot represents an accident,
right?
And so x and y are the position, right?
So you can see the map of
Chicago kinda over here, and
you can kinda see the lines which
represent where people drive so
this is the avenues they
have inside of the city.
And each that represents an accident.
And so well how do you decide if
something is part of a cluster or not?
So like for example if you look at
these three dots in here in the middle,
hopefully you can see them,
maybe I can zoom in, right.
Notice there is big space around them,
right.
So when you set up a clustering algorithm,
you ask it to tell you how much
distance does something have to be to
be still considered part
of the same cluster, right?
And for whatever reason,
no accidents happened over here and
this is why this particular
cluster ended up on its own,
because none of the points that are nearby
qualify the distance thing in there.
Anyway, so
that just gives you the clustering.
This is the background, this is what
we're gonna be using for testing.
So what we want is we wanna be
able to do a unit test Test,
we wanna be able to test this
particular component, right?
This is a component in here
that we wanna unit test.
We probably also wanna have an end-to-end
test because as a application developer
I can mess with these numbers here and
different things can happen.
And so we wanna look at different
kinds of testing that exists now.
So there's a sub-component
folder called clustering.
And there's also a component, sorry,
there's a clustering component in here.
So the routes clustering index TSX,
this is basically just a UI that you see.
So that file represents this UI right
here.And then if you go to the.
Clustering, the source clustering,
there is a clustering TS and
there's a cluster TS, TSX.
The cluster TSX is a component that
creates, basically that's this component
right here, this clustering component
right here that you see here.
So that's a component that
we're using to build up the UI.
And then the clustering is actually
the logic that does the clustering,
that knows how to do all the parts.
So we have a piece of code
that knows how to do clusters.
We have a visual component that
knows how to render the clusters.
And we have a page That not
only shows the clusters, but
also has some UI associated with it.
So you can see how testing all of these
things together might be tricky or
things to explore.
So let's start from the lowest level.
The lowest level is we would like to test
the UI of the cluster that the clustering
algorithm works.
So that's this particular file right here,
it's called clustering.ts.
Okay, so clustering, this is the piece
of code that takes a dataset and
figures out how to build clusters, right?
I am storing the dataset in just
a JSON file, database..json.
If you open it, you'll see that there is
thousands and thousands of accidents.
I'm actually kinda shocked just
how many accidents there are.
I guess it's over last 50 years,
but still.
So this loads the data set.
Then we have some parameters and
some default.
So my default The radius is how many
meters before the size of the cluster,
how big the radius is.
So the default I have is 300 meters,
which I think is about 1,000 feet or
something like that.
And because the actual x and
y positions of where the accident
happens is in longitude and latitude.
There's some math here to
convert it into longitude and
longitude, and each cluster basically
will give me the minimum and
maximum in latitude, minimum and
maximum in longitude.
And a collection of data points
that represent the cluster, right?
And so Location is,
if you go in here, a location is just
a number that represents the longitude and
latitude, right?
So pretty straightforward.
And clusters is going to be plural.
It's just a collection of clusters.
So array of cluster is clusters.
So there is an existing implementation of
clustering algorithm that we're using.
So it's called a density clustering
that I've already installed.
And so the hard part is really just
getting the data in the correct format for
this algorithm to run.
So typically, we're not testing
whether the algorithm is correct.
We're just testing if the data is being
fed into the algorithm in the correct way.
And so
you can see that we create the algorithm.
And we then have to map our data set
into a format that the algorithm wants.
We do some performance numbers in here and
then we let the algorithm
do its magic right here.
Then once we have that, we have to go and
convert it into format that we can use.
So this piece of code over here just
converts it in the format that's
usable to us, right?
And so the test we really would
be interested in is testing this
particular code to see if it works.
So let's get to it.